=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

check - check both developer and controller signatures on an AR archive.

check-client - client to interact with a check-daemon and send it archives to
check their signatures.

check-daemon - daemon receiving commands from a check-client and checking sent
archives signatures.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

For civil cryptography:

=over 12

=item B<check> [B<-vVh>] B<-k> F<path> [B<-r> F<re>] B<-l> F<crl> B<-t>
F<trusted> B<-K> F<path2> [B<-R> F<re2>] B<-L> F<crl2> B<-T> F<trusted2>

=item B<check-daemon> [B<-vVh>] B<-S> F<socket> B<-k> F<path> [B<-r> F<re>]
B<-l> F<crl> B<-t> F<trusted> B<-K> F<path2> [B<-R> F<re2>] B<-L> F<crl2> B<-T>
F<trusted2> [B<-c>] [B<-F>]

=item B<check-client> [B<-vVh>] B<-S> F<socket> { B<-c> F<package> | B<-q> }

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<check> ensures that both the developer and controller signatures appended to
the F<file> AR archive are valid. Those signatures are generally produced by
the L<gencrypt-sign(8)> utility.

The B<check-client> interacts with a B<check-daemon> over the F<socket> to
validate the F<package> developer and controller signatures. It may also ask
the B<check-daemon> to stop running.

The B<check-daemon> drops priviledges, optionnaly chroots itself into
F</var/empty/gen-crypt> and listens on F<socket> for incomming requests from
B<check-client>. It then validate developer and controller signatures on files
it receives and returns the result to the B<check-client>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Generic options:

=over 12

=item B<-h>

Print a help message and exit.

=item B<-v>

Print the package version and exit.

=item B<-V>

Be more verbose: set once for log messages, twice for debug.

=item B<-c>

Chroot into /var/empty/gen-crypt after startup

=item B<-F>

Do not daemonize, stay in foreground

=item B<-k> F<path> (mandatory)

Path to a folder containing a B<c_rehashed> repository of certificates to
validate developers certificates.

=item B<-r> F<re>

Optional regular expression that the subject name in verified developer
certificates must match.

=item B<-l> F<crl> (mandatory)

Path to a folder containing a B<c_rehashed> repository of CRL for the developer
PKI.

=item B<-t> F<trusted> (mandatory)

Path to the certificate to trust as the issuer of developer certificates.

=item B<-K> F<path2> (mandatory)

Path to a folder containing a B<c_rehashed> repository of certificates to
validate controllers certificates.

=item B<-R> F<re2>

Optional regular expression that the subject name in verified controller
certificates must match.

=item B<-L> F<crl2> (mandatory)

Path to a folder containing a B<c_rehashed> repository of CRL for the
controller PKI.

=item B<-T> F<trusted2> (mandatory)

Path to the certificate to trust as the issuer of controller certificates.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>,
Timothée Ravier <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<gencrypt-sign(8)|gencrypt-sign>

=cut
