=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

sign - add a signature to an AR archive.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sign> { B<-D> | B<-C> } [B<-vVh>] B<-k> F<key> B<-c> F<cert> [B<-p> F<pass>]
[B<-r> F<re>] F<file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sign> creates a signature for an AR file named F<file>, using the F<key>. The
signature along with the signer's certificate F<cert> is included at the end of
the archive.

The B<-D> and B<-C> mutually exclusive arguments specify whether the signature
is created with the developer or controller type.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 12

=item B<-D> (mandatory)

Create a developer signature (dev_sign)

=item B<-C> (mandatory)

Create a controller signature (ctrl_sign)

=item B<-k> F<key> (mandatory)

Use F<key> as the developer or controller private key to create the signature.
For civil cryptography, F<key> must be a PEM encoded private key.

=item B<-c> F<cert> (mandatory)

Use F<cert> as the developer or controller certificate (public key) of the
sender, to be included in the signature member of the archive. For civil
cryptography, F<key> must be a PEM encoded x509v3 certificate.

=item B<-p> F<pass>

Read the password for F<key> in the F<pass> file. No default is specified for
civil cryptography.

=item B<-r> F<re>

Check that the Subject Name of F<key> matches the F<re> regular expression.

=item B<-h>

Print a help message and exit.

=item B<-v>

Print the package version and exit.

=item B<-V>

Be more verbose: set once for log messages, twice for debug.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>,
Timothée Ravier <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<gencrypt-check(8)|gencrypt-check>

=cut
